Background:
In late February 2022, the Energy and Commerce Committee announced that the 
Consumer Protection and Commerce Subcommittee would hold a hearing on March 9, 2022, 
to discuss Daylight Saving Time (DST); the hearing was entitled, 
“Changing Times: Revisiting Spring Forward, Fall Back.” The subcommittee 
Chair Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) stated in a press release the following:

“Twice a year, in the spring and fall, people across the nation adjust their 
clocks and modify their schedules to adjust to the new time,” Pallone and Schakowsky said. 
“Historians will provide all sorts of justifications for why we do this, but increasingly our 
changing of the clocks twice a year is getting harder to explain. Next week, the Subcommittee 
will hear from a panel of experts on the impacts of springing forward and falling back, 
and whether it still makes sense in our modern times.”  

The subcommittee conducted this hearing to decide whether or not a bipartisan bill would
move forward through government in order to ensure Americans would no longer have to change 
their clocks twice a year starting in 2023; eliminating standard time or the switch that occurs 
during winter months. However, this isn’t the first time in history our government has attempted to 
do away with the time change, so what can the data tells us about the arguments made around doing away with it?



Methodology 
When getting started with my analysis, one thing I needed to do was remove outliers; this led to me 
removing Arizona and Hawaii from the datasets I was using as they do not observe DST and didn’t want 
them to skew my results. I was looking to analyze rates for each topic by comparing the week before and 
week after DST to identify if there was indeed an increase in rates around this time, supporting the 
arguments by stakeholders vested in this topic.

Business Problem: Once again, the U.S. finds itself attempting to make Daylight Saving Time (DST) permanent. 
On Tuesday, March 16th 2022 the Senate approved and passed a bill called the Sunshine Protection Act of 2021, 
which would effectively make DST permanent across the U.S. beginning in 2023 (Hernandez, 2022). However, as the 
debate around whether or not to pass this bill into law unfolds, many find themselves revisiting a familiar discussion 
around the benefits of such a permanent change. While some pros for the change include a decrease on energy consumption 
during the summer months and more hours of sunlight, others note that the cons may not be worth it, to include health problems, 
sleep deprivation, and an increase in crime and accidents (Diamond, 2022). This leads us to the following question: What can 
the data tell us about the effects on society surrounding the shift between daylight saving time and standard time?

Ideally, I would like to find data sets which show me (What data science has to say about Daylight Saving Time, 2021):
•	Crime rates
•	Traffic Accidents and Fatalities
•	Pedestrian Deaths
•	Health or Medical accidents
•	Suicides
•	Mental Health
I would like my datasets are at least on the week or day level basis in order for me to compare the rates of the 
above topics between the week leading up to DST, the week of the DST change, and the week back to standard time. 
